---
layout: post
title: "Little Oddity in MASM"
date: 2022-06-29
---

During Windows port of [vmlatency](https://github.com/yulyugin/vmlatency) I had to write a bit of assembly using [MASM](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/assembler/masm/masm-for-x64-ml64-exe). I needed to execute few instructions not covert by [available intrinsics](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/intrinsics/x64-amd64-intrinsics-list). While doing the port I found a minor oddity in MASM.

## Operand Size for LGDT

I needed a function that simply calls `LGDT` instruction thus loading Global Descriptor Table register from a given memory location. This is done as a part of host state restoring routine performed by vmlatency.

The tool runs in 64-bit mode only at the moment therefore I only had to write x64 assembly wrappers. `LGDT` instruction has the following format in 64-bit mode: `LGDT m16&64` thus having a pointer to 10-byte (referred as [TBYTE](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/assembler/masm/tbyte) by MASM) memory location. Based on the information I expected this assembly code to encode `LGDT` instruction:

```
lgdt tbyte ptr [rcx]
```

But this code doesn't compile with MASM and produces this error:

```
error A2024:invalid operand size for instruction
```

With a bit of experimenting, I found that MASM expects a 6-byte (referred as [FWORD](https://docs.microsoft.com/cpp/assembler/masm/fword)) memory location for `LGDT` instruction. This is valid for 32-bit mode where `LGDT` has another format: `LGDT m16&32`.

This is just a minor oddity that is easy to find and get around. Despite this oddity right binary sequence is generated as shown by manual inspect of driver binary and error-free execution:

```
12006:       0f 01 11                lgdt   (%rcx)
```

## Other Similar Instructions

`SGDT` has precisely the same operand kind as `LGDT`, but it stores GDT value to the given memory location instead. MASM ignores operand size specifier for `SGDT` while only accepts `fword ptr` for `LGDT`.

The oddity repeats exactly for `LIDT` and `SIDT` instructions that do similar operations with Interrupt Descriptor Table register.
